http2 gRPC go tutorial (#83)
scaleway/serverless-examples: containers/grpc-http2-go/README.md

# gRPC HTTP2 Server in Go using CLI

> Example that demonstrates the deployment of a gRPC service on Scaleway Serverless Containers.
> 
> For this example we will use the CLI to deploy the container but you can use [other methods](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/containers/reference-content/deploy-container/).
> You can also use the CLI directly from Scaleway console, it saves you operations of setting up your credentials.
> 
> ## Container settings
> 
> To deploy a Serverless Container that uses the gRPC protocol it's important to enable http2 setting (named `h2c` in the API).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates the deployment of a gRPC service on Scaleway Serverless Containers.

For this example, we will use the CLI to deploy the container, but you can use [other methods](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/serverless/containers/reference-content/deploy-container/).
You can also use the CLI directly from Scaleway console without having to use your credentials.

```

Reviewer: Moving the "enable http2" part further

## Workflow

Here are the different steps we are going to proceed:

- Quick set-up of Container Registry to host our gRPC container
- Deploy the Serverless Container
- Run gRPC test command ot ensure everything is ok

## Deployment

### Requirements

> - [Scaleway CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli): be sure to be logged in
> - **Docker** To build the image
> - If you want to test locally, you will need to install the common gRPC stack (doc [here](https://grpc.io/blog/installation/))
>   but this is not required for deployment as everything is built in the Dockerfile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete the actions presented below, you must have:
- installed and configured the [Scaleway CLI](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/developer-tools/scaleway-cli/quickstart/)
- installed [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) to build the image
- installed the common [gRPC stack](https://grpc.io/blog/installation/)) to test locally (optional)
```

### Building the image

> To store the image we need to create a namespace in Container Registery with the following command:
> 
> ```bash
> scw registry namespace create name=hello-grpc
> ```
> 
> As output it will give you some informations, keep the endpoint, on this case it's `rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc` (it can change in your case depending the region).
> 
> Now open a terminal to set-up Docker, it will allow you to send the built image in the Container Registry we created at the previous step.
> 
> Login command:
> 
> ```bash
> docker login rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc -u nologin --password-stdin <<< "$SCW_SECRET_KEY"
> ```
> 
> At this point you have correctly set up docker to be able to push your image online.
> 
> **Builb** the image by opening a terminal on your computer in this directory, and run:
> 
> ```bash
> docker build -t grpc:latest .
> ```
> 
> Now we will tag and push the image:
> 
> ```bash
> docker tag grpc:latest rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
> docker push rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the following command in a terminal to create Container Registry namespace to store the image:

  ```bash
  scw registry namespace create name=hello-grpc
  ```

  The registry namespace information displays.
  
1. Copy the namespace endpoint (in this case, `rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc`). 

1. Log into the Container Registry namespace you created using Docker: 

  ```bash
  docker login rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc -u nologin --password-stdin <<< "$SCW_SECRET_KEY"
  ```

  At this point, you have correctly set up Docker to be able to push your image online.

1. In a terminal, access this directory (containing the Dockerfile), and run the following command to build the image:

  ```bash
  docker build -t grpc:latest .
  ```

1. Tag and push the image to the registry namespace:

```bash
docker tag grpc:latest rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
docker push rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
```
```

### Deploying the image

Now we need to create a nemespace for the Serverless Container and the create the container:

> ```bash
> scw container namespace create name=grpc-test
> ```
> 
> Save the ID of the container.
> 
> Now create and deploy the container with a single command:
> 
> ```bash
> scw container container create namespace-id=<PREVIOUS_NAMESPACE_ID> protocol=h2c name=grpc-test registry-image=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
> ```
> 
> Save the DomainName (endpoint) for testing.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    scw container namespace create name=grpc-test
    ```
    The namespace information displays.

1. Copy the namespace ID.

1. Run the following command to create and deploy the container:

    ```bash
    scw container container create namespace-id=<PREVIOUS_NAMESPACE_ID> protocol=h2c name=grpc-test registry-image=rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/hello-grpc/grpc:latest
    ```
    The container information displays.

1. Copy the DomainName (endpoint) to test your container.

```

### Testing

> Before testing, ensure your container is in status `ready`.
> 
> In `client/client.go` file, remplace the constant `containerEndpoint` with the DomainName. Do not forget to keep `:80` port at the end even
> if you container port is set to 8080, these are two different settings.
> 
> And then execute `go run client/client.go' to check if your container reponds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your container is in a `ready` status before testing it.

1. In the `client/client.go` file, replace the constant `containerEndpoint` with the `DomainName` copied previously. 

1. Make sure to keep the `:80` port at the end even if you container port is set to 8080, as these are two different settings.

1. Run the command below to check if your container responds:

    `go run client/client.go' 
```
